---
layout: post
title: Geek Golf
tags:
- Geek
- Golf
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: {}
---
It's golf, the other four letter word!

Golf is an awkward subject for a lot of us.  It seems we've developed a reflexive distrust for anyone who thinks it's fun to stand around and wear pressed khakis and bright Polo shirts.  I don't know what it is -- maybe it's the trite motivational golf posters adorning the office of that slick sales guy down the hall, or the excruciatingly slow pace of those televised tournaments on ESPN, or the massive kitsch and gimmick industry that just rubs <em>everyone</em> the wrong way.

Or, maybe the idea of swinging a very expensive stick at a very expensive ball on a very expensive lawn just isn't appealing.

Anyhow, I that's pretty much what I thought about golf until last year, when my brother in law took a job at GolfNow.com.  When he started taking golf lessons I thought it was a little strange.  When he started disappearing every weekend, I grew concerned.

One day, he invited me out for some "pitch and putt" golf, and I figured I'd see what was really going on.

That was about a year ago, and now I'm pretty well hooked on it.

Here's the secret:  golf isn't about spending a heap of money to impress your well heeled friends, and it isn't some sort of hot and heavy alpha male competition.  It's not expensive.  It's not selling your soul.   It's not a stuffy, upper crusty, snobby pursuit.   Heck, it's not even about the equipment.

Golf is about your friends.  It's an opportunity to get out of your day-to-day routine and do something different, with people you'd like to hang out with anyway.  It's about turning it into your own thing, with your own crowd (and having a good laugh about pressed khakis and bright Polo shirts).

So, a big part of that is getting your crowd interested -- how many people here in Portland would be interested in a monthly Geek Golf event?  Get together on a weekend, play a round, followed by beer?
